>> Melkey: We are going to now leverage
the structure that we have developed using
our Qi router and the HTTP server
to start building out our handlers.
And we're gonna do this by continuing
to organize our application.
So here in the internal folder,
let's create a new package called api,
okay?
Within the api package, we're gonna create
a new file called workout_handler.go.
>> Melkey: Let's define
the package api name, okay?
And in here, again,
with every new package,
I always ask myself,
how am I gonna handling be data?
Now, at an api layer, it's not obvious
because if you really think about it,
we accept requests from a client,
we do some stuff with something bad.
What data are we gonna really have, right?
Data doesn't have to be just like
a string, or anything like that data,
as we saw with structs, could also be just
functions and different access layers.
And because our API is going to be
directly talking to our database,
we know that our api needs to have
access to the database layer.
So I'm gonna jump back and
forth a little bit,
but here in internal,
let's make a new folder.
Let's call this store, okay?
It's gonna be package store,
and within the store folder,
let's make a new file
called workout_store.go.
The naming pattern is intentional.
So you know that workout handler will
most likely have some relationship
with a workout store, okay?
Again, this isn't like a hard rule.
Here, let's just create package store.
Now, what I typically do when I write
functions or code is I always, and
this is personal preference,
I love starting from the lowest level.
And for me, the lowest level
is a database layer, right?
If I know how my database layer is gonna
look and like how that world works,
I can go one level above, which is like
api level calls the database layer.
When I satisfied there I go one level up,
which is like the routing make sure
everything is corrected there.
In this case, in the first example,
we're going to start api letter first, so
we're going to leave the data store as is,
but just be mindful.
We're gonna come back to this file when
we tell our app exactly what to do and
how to communicate with our database.
So here, because I said we
are gonna be handling data,
we're gonna create a new
WorkoutHandler struck.
Let's leave this empty for right now, but
with every new struct, let's go ahead and
create our constructor.
So NewWorkoutHandler.
Right now, it's not gonna take any
argument, but it's going to return a point
to WorkoutHandler and so we can do return
the address of WorkoutHandler like so.
And because of this, and
we have this struct available to us,
let's create methods that will
live on the workout handler.
This is a CRUD app.
We need to be able to create,
read, update, delete.
So we're gonna create those methods.
But we're gonna start with getting
the workout and creating the workout.
Those are gonna be, first we're gonna do,
then we'll do update, and
then we'll save delete for last.
So here, let's go ahead and do func.
We'll do a receive to we'll call it wh and
this will be appointed to
our WorkoutHandler, and
we'll call the first one
HandleGetWorkoutByID, okay?
This is gonna take two arguments
which we've seen before,
http.Responsewriter and
r http.Request, okay?
And the body of a function,
if we take a step back,
when we think about how
we access the things,
the name is kind of HandleGetWorkoutByID.
I wonder what that does.
Probably get to work out by the ID.
So if you ever seen,
if you go to a blog post, and
you guys have probably built stuff like
this already, you have UUIDs, right?
You go to a blog post, is that long hash.
That's the ID.
That lives in the URL query.
We could extract that cuz we wanna
know if someone on our website,
our app clicks workout
one versus workout two.
We wanna make sure that we direct
them to the appropriate workout.
So what we can do is actually
retrieve that parameter from the URL,
and we can do that using chi.
So here we can do paramsWorkoutID
is going to be chi.URLParam,
we're gonna pass it that pointer to r, and
then we're gonna extract the slug,
which will dub as id.
And we define the slug when
we define it in our routes.
Here, following,
can just do some preliminary checks
if paramWorkoutID is empty, okay?
We can just simply respond,
hey, this doesn't exist.
Can do http.NotFound, okay?
w, r, and then return.
The return is absolutely critical.
If you don't put a return continues.
Now that we have the workoutID,
the one gotcha is when we use
chi.URLParam, it returns us a string.
WorkoutID is not a string.
WorkoutID is going to be an int for
this example, okay?
Now, typically this could be something
like a UUID, that's probably more valid.
For the sake of this course,
we're gonna stick to using an int,
just because when we start querying,
posting, updating,
it's easier to put one or
two versus a UUID string, okay?
So just for the sake of teaching,
it's a little bit more digestible,
I guess would be the best word to use.
So here we're gonna do workoutID,
and we're gonna do error.
I'm gonna bring in a new
standard library package called
string conversion, so S-T-R-C-U-N-V, okay?
And the function we're gonna do is parse.
I'm gonna bring this one cuz my editor,
>> Melkey: And do parse int.
>> Melkey: There you go.
Okay, so parse int.
It's going to take an argument,
which can be the params or workout ID,
which is type string.
It's been converted to base 10.
It's been converted to a 64 bit int.
Here, if our error does not equal to nil,
what we're going to do is,
I'm gonna kind of cheat this one
I'm going to do http NotFound,
w, r, and return, okay?
I know some individuals may have questions
about error logging and stuff like that.
Hold those questions until we're done,
allow this module.
I'm taking a lot of liberties right now to
kinda get a dirty version of working and
we'll follow it up with
properly formatting this,
giving the proper utils and
how to handle errors accordingly.
So now if we have no errors,
we know that we have succesfully converted
our workout ID and we have the workout ID.
All I wanna do is format.f,
printf, we can do W,
and let's just say this is
the workout id module OD,
break the line, and let's put workoutID.
Cool, so TLDR, here we call this.
We have a slug.
We extract the slug,
we respond with the slug.
Let's all read about it right now.
Okay, as you finish writing that up,
I'm going to start on the second handler.
Don't feel rushed because this
one is gonna be even easier.
So all I'm gonna do here is handle
CreateWorkout, not by ID cuz when you
created workout we did not care about
this, we handled this on our side.
We'll do again the ResponseWriter,
a pointer to http RequestAll I wanna do is
format We handled this on
our side We'll do again,
the response writer a pointer
to HTTP request, okay?
And then here we're just
gonna do is format.f,
printf, we can do W, and
we'll say created a workout,
just to tell us how things are working,
cool.
Now that we have our handle workout,
the struck,
we want to essentially allow people
to curl these requests, right?
We want to get and do a post.
How do we do that?
In routes, we can put in routes,
but even if you put in routes,
how does routes know
about these functions?
And this is where that structure
of our app comes back.
So here we have our type
application struck,
what we're going to add onto this is
now a new field called WorkoutHandler.
And this workoutHandler is gonna be
a pointer to API workoutHandler like this,
and so we're gonna pull in that package,
we just created,
malkidev then project,
internal/API, all right?
And over here,
we gonna create our stores will go here.
And then right below it,
our handlers will go here.
And we can define our first handler as
a workoutHandler as api.NewWorkoutHandler.
>> Melkey: And once we define that, we
can feed it into our application like so.
>> Melkey: So I'm hoping that
the structure is now becoming a little bit
more obvious, right?
We're gonna have multiple handlers,
workout users, whatever you want, and
there's a kind of exist in
their own package realm.
The way we bring them in is using our
application struct to be this kind of one
crux that now has the ability to be
called throughout our application.
We pass that application shrug.
So instead of passing each individual
work on handler across to routes.go
we just pass app and that app has access
to all of the underlying fields, okay?
Now we have this.
We can go to our routes.go,
and very easily,
just hook this up to our functions.
Gonna be two function we're gonna add.
We'll do r.get, okay?
The first one is going to be the slug.
So the workout, so we do /workouts/.
And then this how you do a slug in cheese
specifically, it's curly braces Id, okay?
And then the function is
gonna be app.workoutHandler.
The thing we just passed
into our app struck, and
it's going to be HandleGetWorkoutByID.
>> Melkey: Okay, once you finish that up,
the next function is going to be
the createFunction,
which is gonna be a post, r.post.
The path is just going to be /workouts.
And in here, I'm gonna app.WorkoutHandler,
handleCreateWorkout like so.
So if we're done with that,
we can just quickly go back to our server,
go ahead and rerun this again, okay?
And now we can validate
those new working paths.
So here we can do curl
localhost:8080/workout/2.
You can see this is the workout id 2.
And if you want to try
out the POST method,
you can do curl -x POST
localhost:8080/workout.
And you can see here, created a workout,
so we have full confirmation, and
now our workout handler
is routed correctly.
We're able to query the routes and
they work as we expect.